Fig. 3. Reinforcement Learning
Intellilight have found out that Deep RL overcomes the
constraints in RL while offering better results in hindsight.
SURTRAC(Scalable Urban Traffic Control) is one of the
recent developments into solving the problem of traffic bottle-
neck developed by Stephen F. Smith, et al. [9]. It uses various
video detectors to detect vehicle and their movements which
are used to manage the traffic lights accordingly. Their system
has improved traffic flow efficiency drastically at the tests
conducted in their pilot site. But in a country like India where
lane discipline is not mandatory, this system may not be as
effective.
Fig. 4. The placement of detectors in a typical installation(SURTRAC)
Fig. 5. New proposed system
IV. CONCLUSION
From the existing technologies that were surveyed, cameras
seem to be the most efficient and best method in order to
capture the traffic conditions. IR and thermal sensors are not as
effective as cameras and may lead to inconsistent results. The
tests which were performed in [3] with thermal cameras
operated in static lab environment and minimal dynamic
objects in simulated environment which cannot showcase the
actual traffic conditions. Embedded systems provide vital on
node computing at cheap costs and can also be used as a
medium to communicate with traffic signals.
VANET and RFID based system require the vehicles to send
information. Without a vehicle capable of doing so, or any
minor inconvenience dwindling their ability to do so, the
results might not be as accurate. Reinforcement learning is a
widely suggested solution for traffic control, but the constraints
that come along with it does not make it the best candidate to
solve the problem. However, deep reinforcement learning
could help overcome those issues.
SURTRAC converts the traffic problem into a single
machine scheduling problem. It definitely has shown promising
results at the test site. Since it services on the vehicle to vehicle
basis, it may alter cyclic scheduling of traffic lights. Thereby,
this may be problematic in a country like India.The following
results are taken from [9] :
Percent Improvement Average Vehicles Travel Time Speed Number of Stops Wait Time Emissions
AM rush 5228 30.11% 33.78% 29.14% 47.78% 23.83%
Mid day 8007 32.83% 48.55% 52.58% 49.82% 29.00%
PM rush 9548 22.65% 27.45% 8.89% 35.60% 18.41%
Evening 7157 17.52% 27.81% 34.97% 27.56% 14.01%
Overall 29940 25.79% 34.02% 31.34% 40.64% 21.48%
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The undertaking and progress of this project required a lot
III. PROPOSED METHODOLOGY
Hereby, the following system is being proposed wherein the
traffic conditions will be monitored through cameras. The
cameras will be input to the next module which will carry out
the object detection. This output will then be forwarded to the
learning algorithm and on the basis of the analyzing carried out
by the algorithm, the system will propose new time
slots/schedules that need to be implemented by the traffic
system. This system will not alter the sequential switching flow
from one signal to another that is already in existence.
The system will monitor the traffic flows that pass through
the road intersection and will work in a decentralized manner.
of guidance and assistance from many people and we are
extremely privileged to have got this all along the completion
of this project report. All that we have done is only due to such
supervision and assistance and we would not forget to thank
them.
We respect and thank Prof. J.B.Kulkarni , for providing us
an opportunity and giving us all support and guidance which
made us complete the project report duly. We are extremely
thankful to her for providing such nice support and guidance.
We owe our deep gratitude to Prof.M.P.Wankhade, HOD
Department of Computer Engineering, who took keen interest
in our project work, for providing all facilities and help for
smooth progress of the project.