parking, data loss due to power failure and availability of
funds.
Jasmine Rani L. et al. [1] have proposed the use of
IR(Infrared) sensors in order to collect vehicle data. The flaws
appear when multiple vehicles arrive in the scene. This would
require many IR sensors to compute the traffic density
and with that, the data obtained may not be as reliable.
Also the categorization of vehicle on the basis of IR sensor
data is very difficult to accomplish. This makes the use of IR
sensors unfeasible. As specified in the papers, the traffic
lights are dependent on the signals received from IR
sensors, if the IR sensors are occupied by a single vehicle
or multiple vehicles in a less congested traffic lane, their
system might give more importance to a less congested area
causing more congestion. Moving forward to use of RFID
(Radio Frequency Identi- fication) for the traffic control
problem, Al-Khateeb et. al. [2] have developed a system
which senses the situation through RFID devices. Major
requirement of that system is to have RFID tags which
will transmit data. The process of having every vehicle
tagged is long lasting and difficult to accomplish since
vehicles which were manufactured before 2017(in India)
didn’t mandatorily consist of RFID tags.
Thermal cameras could aid in sensing vehicle inflow during
conditions with low visibility. This advantage comes with a
hefty cost. P. Jagannadha Rao et. al. [3] have suggested the idea
to use them as detectors. Despite the advantages, when we
consider the working of thermal cameras during times when
visibility is okay, normal cameras will outperform them while
also being relatively cheaper than them. From the plethora of
data sources available, it will be easier to collect and harness
images about non-thermal cameras than thermal cameras in
order to build a model from them.
While the devices mentioned above do offer partial solutions
for traffic control, it is also important as to where the sensors
and devices would be placed and mounted. Undeniably, em-
bedded systems provide cost efficient solutions to computation
at nodes while also being structurally small and providing most
of the functionalities that a modern computer can provide
whilst also accommodating the said equipment. Sk Riyaz
Hussain, et al [4] in their paper have considered the idea of
monitoring traffic density through Raspberry Pi. They have
measured the density of traffic by differentiation between
white and black pixels. This method would not prove useful
when a large vehicle like a truck or a bus or a number of them
takes up the most of the camera footage.
Although the weakness, one takeaway is that an embedded
system can prove as a useful device going forward because of
the functionalities offered at limited cost.
Maram Bani Younes and Azzedine Boukerche [5] have
offered insights into using VANETs(Vehicular Ad-hoc Net-
works) technology to develop an intelligent traffic light con-
trolling algorithms by placing wireless transceiver and GPS
tools on vehicles. Each vehicle over the road periodically
broadcasts the basic traveling data (i.e., location, speed, direc-
tion, destination, etc). Vehicles receive the basic traffic data of
surrounding vehicles. This will just increase cost of the system
because vehicles will require to be equipped with the above
mentioned devices as well as the computations that will be
performed may take a lot of time in congested areas because of
mass amount of availability of vehicles. Also the reports
Fig. 1. Raspberry Pi board
that the agent will receive may be incoherent depending on
different reporting vehicle. Also the system is dependent on
vehicles to pass the information and may not work when and if
the devices stop functioning.
Looking at speed of the vehicles in order to judge traffic is
an interesting perspective put forward by Li Jinyang et. al.
[6]. This can be implemented by V2I(Vehicle to Infras-
tructure) where road vehicles interact with the road infrastruc-
ture/system. The main issue still stands in the vehicles tailored
with the devices to do so. Also while vehicle speed though may
prove out to show the real time traffic conditions, if certain
vehicle drivers are used to driving slowly, the performance of
the proposed model may be hindered.
Fig. 2. Modular Architecture
With the growing popularity of RL(Reinforcment Learning)
in recent history, it brings about a new dynamic whenever the
question of an adaptive/ learning system comes in the
discussion. RL uses Q-Learning to do so which constructs a
key-value pair between states and actions which will lead to the
optimal calculated reward. Similar approach can be used for
traffic as has been experimented by El-Tantawy et. al. [7]. The
problem within this lies in the fact that it is not possible to
store so many states because of memory constraints and the
vast amount of variables that need to be accounted.
Wei Hua et al. [8] in their proposed system known as